Hello and welcome to this lecture we're we're going to be creating a VR app using Google's vr package
which includes daydream and cardboard.
And if you're wondering about the differences between cardboard and daydream daydream is much more advanced.
It requires specific hardware.
So some more advanced type of Android phones to run and you need special headsets and a remote that
comes with it.
But luckily Google has included everything and sort of one V.R. package so making stuff or daydream
and cardboard we can sort of flip the switch.
Not too hard there.
So in order to get this running I believe the best way to create a VR game is going to be using unity.
At least that's what my vr friends tell me.
I'm not an expert in VR by any means in fact the main focus of this is to get you started and get a
little sample project up and running and see how you can then work with that.
And again unity is the platform that we're going to use to do this because they are so great with 3D
programs.
So the first step for us is we've got to get unity on a computer if you don't already have that.
So let's go ahead and open up a browser and just search for unity.
There's going to be the first thing that pops up once you're to the site you just want to go ahead and
say get unity.
And if you click on this it's going to have different options here we just want the personal version.
So just say personal.
That's going to say hey you're not using this to make hundreds of thousands of dollars.
Are you saying no I'm just trying to figure this out.
For the first time.
So if you click this it's going to give you download option here so that you can get unity and that's
actually pretty small file but it's this thing that you open that it's going to allow you to then get
more advanced.
We're going to open up this unity download assistant and you'll just want to go ahead and go through
here and you know say agree or not to different things here.
As far as the things that you need make sure you have Android build support checked.
And I would have these top four ones so unity Monteux develop documentation and standard assets.
You can choose which ones you like but I feel like those are the minimum that you should have.
So just go ahead and hit continue and move forward with that and that will install everything.
So I already have everything on my computer so I'm not going to go through that install process.
Plus it takes quite a while there's some chunky files that we've got to go download the next thing that
we need.
So that's unity.
The next thing that we need is Google.
Just search google V.R. SDK.
And this is going to show you what you need.
So with this go ahead looks like it is our top result developers dot Google dot com slash V.R. slash
unity.
So you can download Google's VR stuff for iOS Android unity.
Unreal.
But again I think unity is the best option.
Even better than just straight up native Android.
So when you get here we want to go ahead and scroll down to the download so we want to get the Google
vr SDK for unity.
So go ahead and click on this you agree to their terms and conditions and hit download.
Is going to take you to the get home page where it's going to have the latest releases.
And so I mean new stuff is coming out all the time so don't worry too much about what version you have.
We're going to be using version 1.1 10 but we'll just go ahead and hit download on that.
And that's going to start a whole download process I actually already have that on my computer so that's
why it's not showing up there.
But once you have that in place you're ready to move forward.
So with that go ahead and once you have unity installed go ahead and open that up unity.
OK.
And you're going to have to sign and you're going to have to create an account.
You can do that with just you know your e-mail account or you know Facebook whatever it is that you
want.
But let's go ahead and start a new project and hope yours somehow lost inside of here.
Here we go.
So we want to create a new project.
Call us whatever you want.
I'm just going to maybe call mine learning Android and spell that correctly you can choose where you
want to put this.
I'm going to put mine on the desktop.
And with that we'll go ahead and say create project.
The one thing I should have mentioned make sure you have 3-D selected there will be an important one
so unity will open up here and again unity.
Unity is a program that allows us to create 3D environments and all sorts of gaming logic.
And so this is why I think it's better to tap into unity versus doing sort of daydream cardboard stuff
on your own natively with Android.
I think this is just a little bit more user friendly slash you can get up and running much faster.
Now the main key point in that we've got to do to move forward here is you've got to import that Google
SDK stuff into here.
So we're going to go to assets import new asset and we're going to go to our downloads and I'm going
to select.
I'm in the wrong place here.
So I want to go to assets import packages what I want and I want a custom package and I want this unity
package.
This you know Google V.R. for unity blah blah blah.
So you make sure you have that unity package if you don't have that file that means you downloaded something
incorrectly it wasn't the right way and maybe you got you know Google V.R. for just Android or you got
it for iOS right.
So we want the one that was for unity.
But soon you have one go ahead and hit open.
So I'm going to ask you what part it is that you want to import and I just want to you know take everything
and hit this button that says all that clicks everything will just go ahead and hit important.
So once we do this it's going to bring it down here an asset.
There's all sorts of different configurations that you can work with here in order to get your app up
and running.
But Google has an awesome demo project to sorta just shows you the basics of what's going on.
So we're going to open up as Google V.R. and we're going to move into demos.
And with that we're going to move into the folder called scene so this contains all the examples.
Here's the one that we want to look at is this G.V. our demo I think GVR is short for Google virtual
reality so anywhere you see GVR I know that that's sort of the acronym that it's got there.
So this opens up.
This is a sample little thing that puts us here inside of a room and you can see this camera.
This represents the user the player in their headset.
And there's going to be some boxes that are going to be showing up inside of this game.
But in order to get this to run there's a few things that we've got to do.
So the first one is we want to search for settings and we want to go first to build settings.
So in build settings go in select Android here just go ahead and select that and we want to switch platform.
All right.
And that'll take a second to get everything up and running but we want to have this be the thing that
we're building for so when you build something in unity it's kind of making a you know a current version
of you happens whenever we test something and emulate it right.
So luckily we can just test it here without throwing it on an actual device that just adds another layer
of complexity you're going to want to do that when you're ready to you know publish your app and check
it out.
But for now I'll just have that so if you have this yodeled unity logo that means you're good to go.
And we can go ahead and X out of this.
The next thing that we need to do is we need to search for settings and we want to go now to project
settings.
So with project settings Oh here we go.
So inside of project settings we want to go down to player and there's a couple of options here.
But the main one that we want to check down here.
So we want to go down to X our settings and we want to do virtual reality support and so make sure you
have that box checked.
Also make sure that you hit the little plus button here and you say I'm building this for cardboard
or I'm building this for daydream or whatnot so I'm going to select cardboard here for example.
And once that's in place we should be able to hit this plus button and this will run our little example.
So the real key with this is in order.
You might be clicking on try to move around you can't do anything.
The real key is you hold down the key on your keyboard and then as you move your mouse you're suddenly
now in this world and you'll see when you hover over this this is simulating if you had a device on
your head and you were able to select something.
But we'd go ahead and you know for example if we click on this box it makes it disappear and oh look
there's one over there and we can click and it looks like this one is close to us those little dots
floating out of the thing.
But this one's up above so you can see that's that.
All right.
So we're in that little room.
We'll go ahead and hit the play button to stop that.
Now this is sort of the point where you have to understand unity to sort of move forward and make things
so I'll show you kind of a very simple example.
If we go up here to a game object and we do 3-D objects I could bring in something like a cube.
So if I bring in a cube all sudden I have this cube that if I use these little colored things I can
decide where the cube is going to go.
Other things that I can bring inside of there.
I could bring a sphere and I can decide where I want this to go.
So I'm for example just going to add these two objects and I'm now going to run this and you'll notice
now there's this box behind this other one right.
Like if I get rid of that there's still the cube there and look to my right.
Oh my goodness there's a sphere.
Now these aren't programmed to do the cool thing like they disappear when you click on it but I'm just
showing you that you know this is how you could edit and make a 3D world.
And it's just really outside of the scope of this class.
There's whole there's awesome great courses on unity about how it works and getting it all set up.
So the awesome thing for you is if you want to dive further with virtual reality and daydream here Google
cardboard whatever it is that you'd like.
You just have to learn how to use unity and whatever skills you learn in unity.
They don't have to just be for virtual reality with Android you can use them to make a 3-D PC game you
can use it to make iPhone or Android games that don't necessarily use VR like any 3D world.
You can sort of adapt it to go to different platforms.
That's the real beauty of unity.
And over here you can see all the stuff on the left like GVR instant preview DVR headset right.
Like that's our little player that's being controlled and whatnot.
And so when you make your own world you're going to want to bring one of these guys in and all this
different stuff.
But this is where I'm going to leave you at this point.
I wanted to get you to a starting point where you could at least test this out and again if you wanted
to put this on your device.
There's great tutorials about plugging it in and get it running but like I said with daydream you've
really got to have an advanced enough device to handle all the hardware requirements.
So hopefully you enjoyed that and can make a cool virtual world.